README.md, before:

# Music Assistant Alexa API

This project provides a simple REST API bridge between [Music Assistant](https://github.com/music-assistant) and an Alexa skill. It allows Music Assistant to push a stream URL, which can then be fetched by an Alexa skill.

## Features

- **POST /ma/push-url**  
  Accepts a JSON payload with a `streamUrl` to store the latest stream URL.

- **GET /ma/latest-url**  
  Returns the most recently pushed `streamUrl` for Alexa to consume.

- **Basic Auth**  
  Basic authentication when USERNAME and PASSWORD environment variables are provided. This can also be accomplished with a reverse proxy instead.

## Usage

### Running Locally

1. **Install dependencies:**

   ```sh
   npm install
   ```

2. **Start the server:**

   ```sh
   npm start
   ```

   By default, the server listens on port `3000`. You can override this with the `PORT` environment variable:

   ```sh
   PORT=8080 npm start
   ```

   By default, the server is available without authentication. As this is insecure because the api must be publicly available. You can add basic authentication with the `USERNAME` and `PASSWORD` environment variables:

   ```sh
   USERNAME=admin PASSWORD=test npm start
   ```

### Building and Running with Docker

1. **Build the image:**

   ```sh
   docker build -t music-assistant-alexa-api .
   ```

2. **Run the container:**

   ```sh
   docker run --rm -d -p 3000:3000 music-assistant-alexa-api
   ```

   You can provide the environment variables like this:

   ```sh
   docker run --rm -d -e PORT=8080 -e USERNAME=admin -e PASSWORD=test -p 8080:8080 music-assistant-alexa-api
   ```

### Using GitHub Container Registry (GHCR) and Docker Run

1. **Pull the image from GitHub Container Registry (GHCR):**

    ```sh
    docker pull ghcr.io/alams154/music-assistant-alexa-api:latest
    ```

2. **Run the container:**

    ```sh
    docker run --rm -d -p 3000:3000 -e USERNAME=admin -e PASSWORD=test ghcr.io/alams154/music-assistant-alexa-api:latest
    ```

### Using GitHub Container Registry (GHCR) and Docker Compose

```yaml
services:
  music-assistant-alexa-api:
    image: ghcr.io/alams154/music-assistant-alexa-api:latest
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      - USERNAME=admin
      - PASSWORD=test
```

## API

Returns 401 Unauthorized when the authentication environment variables are provided and the requests does not provide  correct credentials.

### POST `/ma/push-url`

**Body:**

```json
{
  "streamUrl": "https://example.com/stream.mp3"
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{ "status": "ok" }
```

### GET `/ma/latest-url`

**Response:**

```json
{
  "streamUrl": "https://example.com/stream.mp3"
}
```

Returns `404` if no URL has been pushed yet.

## Files

- `server.js` — Express server with the API endpoints.
- `Dockerfile` — For containerizing the app.
- `package.json` — Project metadata and dependencies.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

adds environment variable to replace the host part of the url with another publicly available one

README.md, after:

# Music Assistant Alexa API

This project provides a simple REST API bridge between [Music Assistant](https://github.com/music-assistant) and an Alexa skill. It allows Music Assistant to push a stream URL, which can then be fetched by an Alexa skill.

## Features

- **POST /ma/push-url**  
  Accepts a JSON payload with a `streamUrl` to store the latest stream URL.

- **GET /ma/latest-url**  
  Returns the most recently pushed `streamUrl` for Alexa to consume.

- **Basic Auth**  
  Basic authentication when USERNAME and PASSWORD environment variables are provided. This can also be accomplished with a reverse proxy instead.

- **Replace URL**  
  The server receives the url from music assistant and forwards this url to alexa, as the public url where the stream is available to alexa may vastly differ to the url that you are accessing music assistant (and is configured in music assistant frontend) you can replace that with a custom public url via environment variables like this:

## Usage

### Running Locally

1. **Install dependencies:**

   ```sh
   npm install
   ```

2. **Start the server:**

   ```sh
   npm start
   ```

   By default, the server listens on port `3000`. You can override this with the `PORT` environment variable:

   ```sh
   PORT=8080 npm start
   ```

   By default, the server is available without authentication. As this is insecure because the api must be publicly available. You can add basic authentication with the `USERNAME` and `PASSWORD` environment variables:

   ```sh
   USERNAME=admin PASSWORD=test PUBLIC_URL=https://yourStreamSubDomain.yourDomain npm start
   ```

   The server receives the url from music assistant and forwards this url to alexa, as the public url where the stream is available to alexa may fastly differ to the url that you are accessing music assistant (and is configured in music assistant frontend) you can replace that with a custom public url via environment variables like this:

   ```sh
   PUBLIC_URL=https://yourStreamSubDomain.yourDomain npm start
   ```

### Building and Running with Docker

1. **Build the image:**

   ```sh
   docker build -t music-assistant-alexa-api .
   ```

2. **Run the container:**

   ```sh
   docker run --rm -d -p 3000:3000 music-assistant-alexa-api
   ```

   You can provide the environment variables like this:

   ```sh
   docker run --rm -d -e PORT=8080 -e USERNAME=admin -e PASSWORD=test -e PUBLIC_URL=https://yourStreamSubDomain.yourDomain -p 8080:8080 music-assistant-alexa-api
   ```

### Using GitHub Container Registry (GHCR) and Docker Run

1. **Pull the image from GitHub Container Registry (GHCR):**

    ```sh
    docker pull ghcr.io/alams154/music-assistant-alexa-api:latest
    ```

2. **Run the container:**

    ```sh
    docker run --rm -d -p 3000:3000 -e USERNAME=admin -e PASSWORD=test -e PUBLIC_URL=https://yourStreamSubDomain.yourDomain ghcr.io/alams154/music-assistant-alexa-api:latest
    ```

### Using GitHub Container Registry (GHCR) and Docker Compose

```yaml
services:
  music-assistant-alexa-api:
    image: ghcr.io/alams154/music-assistant-alexa-api:latest
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      - USERNAME=admin
      - PASSWORD=test
      - PUBLIC_URL=https://yourStreamSubDomain.yourDomain
```

## API

Returns 401 Unauthorized when the authentication environment variables are provided and the requests does not provide  correct credentials.

### POST `/ma/push-url`

**Body:**

```json
{
  "streamUrl": "https://example.com/stream.mp3"
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{ "status": "ok" }
```

### GET `/ma/latest-url`

**Response:**

```json
{
  "streamUrl": "https://example.com/stream.mp3"
}
```

Returns `404` if no URL has been pushed yet.

## Files

- `server.js` — Express server with the API endpoints.
- `Dockerfile` — For containerizing the app.
- `package.json` — Project metadata and dependencies.

## License

MIT
